Welcome everyone to today's session on
AI-Assisted Software Development with GitHub Copilot.
Today we'll explore how to leverage
GitHub Copilot effectively in your daily workflow.
We have three main sections to cover:
custom agents, promptfiles, and best practices.
Section 1: Introduction to Custom Agents
Custom agents are specialized AI assistants
that extend GitHub Copilot's capabilities.
They allow you to define specific behaviors,
tools, and instructions for different tasks.
For example, you could create a security analyzer
that focuses only on finding vulnerabilities.
Or a test specialist that generates
comprehensive test coverage.
The key benefit is consistency
across your team's development process.
Section 2: Creating Promptfiles
Promptfiles are reusable task definitions
that can be invoked with a simple command.
They're stored in the .github/copilot/Promptfiles
directory in your repository.
Each promptfile has a YAML front matter
with metadata and arguments.
The body contains Markdown instructions
that tell Copilot what to do.
You can parameterize promptfiles with arguments
to make them flexible and reusable.
For instance, a test generation prompt
could accept a file path as input.
Section 3: Best Practices and Tips
Always provide clear, specific instructions
in your agents and promptfiles.
Use task-oriented language
instead of behavioral descriptions.
Test your configurations thoroughly
before deploying to your team.
Keep your instructions focused
on a single responsibility.
Document your agents and promptfiles
so team members understand when to use them.
Version control everything
and track changes over time.
Conclusion and Q&A
We've covered the fundamentals of
custom agents and promptfiles today.
Remember, these tools are most effective
when used consistently across your team.
Start small with one or two agents,
then expand as you gain experience.
Thank you for attending!
Feel free to reach out with any questions.